# Detection-of-Mammalian-Coding-Sequences-Using-a-Hybrid-Approach-of-Chaos-Game-Representation-and-Mac
Detection of Mammalian Coding Sequences Using a Hybrid Approach of Chaos Game Representation and Machine Learning

**Abstract**

Mammalian protein-coding sequence detection provides a wide range of applications in biodiversity research, evolutionary studies, and understanding of genomic features. Representation of genomic sequences in Chaos Game Representation (CGR) helps reveal hidden features in DNA sequences due to its ability to represent sequences in both numerical and graphical levels. Machine learning approaches can automatically detect hidden patterns in CGR images by detecting and classifying protein-coding and non-coding patterns accurately. Here, we propose a pipeline that automatically detects coding (exons) and non-coding (intron) sequences in mammalian genomes. We collected coding and non-coding sequences from 20 mammalian-specific genes (PRM3, CSN1S1, LCE6A, IL2, MUC7, NNAT, IGIP, SMCP, DCD, and MYEOV), and GCR images were generated from these genes. Five supervised machine learning classifier algorithms (Naive Bayes algorithm, Logistic Regression algorithm, K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm, Perceptron algorithm, and support vector machine (SVM)) were evaluated, using features extracted from images as an input. In Summary, SVM has achieved the highest accuracy with a mean performance of MEAN∓STD. Our findings recommend applying SVM for classifying coding and non-coding sequences for future mammalian related CGR genomic studies.
Keywords: Coding sequence, intron, supervised machine learning, Support Vector Machine, chaos game representation.
